---
title: 2381X Meeting Messages
author: Anthony Luo
date: 2018-12-24 13:00:00 -0500
---
# The Intake
The first thing that I think I should talk about is the testing for our intake. We started with a generally idea of what we wanted, large sprocket feeding into smaller sprockets. This means that we’re able to get something coming out in front of the sprockets, so we can bull balls off of caps during autonomous (recycling balls as a 20 wide robot can get a little bit difficult). This means that space IN FRONT of our top rollers are incredibly crucial. The location of our main sprocket was given to us after some quick CAD work (constraining the top of the ball to the inside of the sprocket, and then approximating to the nearest hole). We decided to use a c-channel, because that would allow us more mounting options later on. We had originally tried to use pillow bearings, but after the last rebuild, we realized that pillow bearings are incredibly difficult to mount to. After that, our top sprocket location was determined by placing the sprocket, holding down c-channel, and seeing what fit the best. This took about half an hour, and went between two main revisions. The first revision mounted our secondary intake on standoffs, with long c-channels. This was incredibly wobbly, and after moving the robot around for a few minutes we realized that this probably wouldn’t hold during a match. With that said, we also realized through testing that there is an odd spot between sprockets, where the ball doesn’t *quite* feed as nicely as it maybe should, because there’s a gap between the sprockets (which is inevitable, yes). We fixed this on our older robots by using friction mat, and we expect that we are likely able to do the same here. After we tried the standoffs, we moved the c-channels holding up the sprocket onto the cata towers - this is much more secure, and do to the unique mounting nature of the cata towers (0.25” - half a hole) apart from everything else allows us to bring the sprockets even closer together, to the point of almost touching, but not quite. 
IMG[000]
On the left, you can see the C-channel being mounted on standoffs, and that the holes don’t line up (our cross brace uses 2 0.375 spacers, which results in a spacing of 0.75”. As you can see, there is a large gap between the two sprockets. This was soon changed.
IMG[001,002]
Here you can see both sides of the C-channel now mounted onto the tower bracing of the robot. This means that the gap between the two sprockets is a lot smaller. On the right side of the robot, we had to stack two c-channels on top of each other because we no longer had a single piece long enough. The long piece we had before had to be used for our cata tower bracing, which I will explain in a second.
The last part of the intake (not sprockets themselves) is the plate that carries the ball upwards. Our plate last time, was one of the factors preventing a front-park. We thought that intakes had to be low, and close to the ground to pick-up balls. This time, we’ve moved the plate up a lot, and we’ve realized that if we just put a thin layer of friction mat (which we’re going to be doing anyways), it will be able to intake just fine. 
IMG[003]
As you can see on the left, our intake plate has a slight curve, and is quite far off the ground. This enables us to park from the front, or the rear (with additions - i’ll talk about these in a second). With a larger intake sprocket, the wheels also have enough force to go up and over. If we don’t bend the intake, however, it wouldn’t be able to pick up the ball. It has to give the ball some force as it curves up, but the exact amount doesn’t matter too much (yet). Why am I able to mount lower in between the wheels? This is because the wheels will contact the platform, or the bump. Essentially, there are two contact poinst that the wheel will make with an object at a certain point in time (each wheel has one with the object), this draws a line, and combining multiple of these lines together creates a curved surface. Inside that curved surface, as long as both wheels are contacting, they won’t contact the item itself, as the wheels will contact. However, if the item is mounted in between the wheels, and only one wheel contacts, then the item may make contact with the surface, as the other defined guide point doesn’t exist. In this image, you’ll be able to see that the plate doesn’t contact the platform.
IMG[004]
# Drive Modifications
Throughout the day, I made quite a few different drive modifications. I’ll walk you through them one by one, and explain the purpose of each. 
IMG[005]
Here you can clearly see the box-bolted interior of the C-channel. The purpose of box-bolting the inside is because that way the c-channel going across is protected, and isn’t going to be wobbling around. We decided not to box bolt the outside because we thought that the c-channel running along the outside would need the extra stability. This is because it is longer, and has to run more things off. It also did help that we didn’t box bolt the outside bc it made mounting points so much easier (as you can see, our towers are braced onto it). You’ll also notice that we have added a tensioner in front of the raised 12T sprocket, which is used to help prevent the chain from hitting the cross c-channel sa well as from skipping over the gear.
IMG[006]
This shows the tensioner in more detail, where we’re able to have spacers going all the way across (low friction).
IMG[007]
Here is the rear tensioner. You can see this is slightly different, this is because there is nothing on the other end to keep it on. Thus, we put a screw into a 1” standoff, and then screwed in from the other side. This allowed us to get the screw on as tight as possible (both the screws bite into each other because they meet in the middle of the standoff), and then we fit spacers on with washers. This means the screw is not likely to come loose, and the chain is adequately tensioned. We used a 45 degrees c-channel because it’s the smallest size we have, and gave us good options for mounting points. This c-channel also has a little bit of flex, so that we’re able to prevent the chain from snapping under high load. We may later switch this to a full c-channel so that mounting is easier.
Lastly, we mounted bars at the front of our robot so that we would be able to climb. What happened was the front of our C-Channel would run into the lexan plate above the platforms (it was JUST not tall enough for some reason). With that in mind, we put down these guides. These elevate the c-channel just a bit before we contact the platform, and allow us to slide on effortlessly. 
IMG[008]
Here you can see how these guides contact the platform before we do. These are smaller, lighter, and more efficient than guide wheels. We have plans to extend these so that they’re going to allow us to drive all the way up onto the platform. We have many MANY plans to improve these, and are going to be extending it all the way back to slightly behind or in front of the wheel (using standoffs). This should allow us to get an EVEN SMOOTHER climb :).
# Catapult
Again, our catapult operates on the principle of a DMD transmission. This means our two gears spin one direction and then fight, allowing motors on arms to move up and down, while running them opposite means that they can drive the catapult. Now, this can also operate off of 1 motor and a ratchet, however we aren’t entirely sure whether or not we wanted to run a ratchet on our catapult for now, and 2 motors doing this is going to be a lot faster than 1 regardless. With a DMD style transmission, we should also be able to remotely control a cap mechanism (should I need to). The most important part for any of this is having good build quality - in order to do this, our towers need to *not* fall apart on us, and need to stay stable (so our shooting stays consistent). In order to do this, we want our towers to be braced from both sides, so that there can’t be any movement (limit the amount of freedom), so, we use a c-channel on one side attached to the cross beam, and then we use a c-channel on the other side, attached to a c-channel that we drop on.
IMG[009]
The c-channel here is put on standoffs so that they will be able to brace against the bottom hole of the c-channel. We could do box braces, but we realized that the source of our issue was the c-channel below it flexing. To prevent this, we secure it in two locations and then there’s nowhere for it to “bend”. 
