---
title: "2381X Meeting Messages"
author: "Anthony Luo"
date: 2018-10-24 -0500
---
# Intake
Our intake has finally been added, we used a combination of bars to help point the balls towards the “center” of the robot. 
We implemented an innovative dual-funnel system. Instead of funneling once like a lot of the earlier season robots, we decided to funnel twice. How did we do this? Well, we need to understand how one-stage funneling works. It takes a giant funnel shape in a two-dimensional plane, so when the roller pushes the ball a bit of force is transferred into sending the ball sideways. This then continues until the first roller is cleared, and the ball is elevated up (in place). However, on our system, we have a two-stage funnel system, which means that we funnel twice. How do we do this without one funnel? By cutting it in half, and then rotating one end by 90 degrees. 
IMG[000]
In this image, you can see the different two-stage funnel systems involved. In the far back, you can see the first stage funnel (which is a straight bar), pushing the ball in, and then you can see the second stage funnel (the bent vertical bar), mounted on a small 4-bar. This two stage system works incredibly well, and the vertical part can store two-balls very efficiently.
IMG[001]
# Flywheel
We experimented a lot with different ways to run our flywheel gearbox. The first way that we tried turned out quite terribly, for reference, it included pillow bearings, was incredibly high friction, and was unstable, and bulky - a lot of metal was used to mount the hardware. The solution to this was….quite a journey. We started with trying to chain the flywheel - this would allow us to mount the gearbox farther back, in a location that would be better for weight distribution, with one noticeable downside. The way that we want to mount the towers on the flywheel meant that our gears and sprocket/chain would be super close together. 
IMG[002]
As you can see, the chain is very close to touching the flywheel tower, which normally would be ok. However, it is likely that our flywheel towers will have a bit of flex, so it would be highly likely that the chain would touch the metal leading to friction and inconsistent firing. A chain is also more likely to snap and cause our flywheel to stop. If a chain snaps, there is a low chance of recovery (a chain will not re-click into place). Gears however, if they skip, have a chance of recovering (even if a tooth chips or breaks, a flywheel will usually be able to function). As you can see in this image, the chain is touching a non-moving nylon spacer. This would have increased friction by a lot, leading to a slower final rotational velocity - meaning less energy gets sent into the flywheel, and less energy thus imparted upon the ball.
The flywheel was then changed to have the gearbox directly beside the flywheel, with a cantilevered 12T gear on the flywheel itself. It was incredibly important in our design to have the 12Tooth gear underneath the first stage (or 36 tooth gear). The reasoning behind this is that gravity would help assist the contact between the 36 tooth gear and the 12 tooth gear (gravity pulls the flywheel down, meaning that the 12 tooth gear is pushed “up”). From there on, there is no more cantilevring, which means that the 60tooth gears can drive the 12 tooth gear directly. Since there was no space to put the 60 tooth gears directly below the second stage 12 tooth gear, they were put off to the side. In this instance, there is no need for a motor bearing-side because there’s not much load being imparted into the motors themselves.
You’ll also notice that there’s now bars holding up the flywheel hood, and this change was made in order to help with the feeding of the intake system, and there’s now also a completed intake system. You can see that a lot of these sprockets are hanging off of bars - a non-issue since they are low load, but they are braced across using standoffs - this ensures that both sides are parallel and the sprocket is low friction. There is a bit of wobbble, but it isn’t significant enough to affect the feed path of the ball. 
IMG[003]
# Cortex Mounting
Our cortex is now also mounted in the center of our robot - the idea with this mounting position is to give it the most “space” in the back for a modular lift system. This means that everything should be moved towards the front, but still be easily accessible. The area which we found is quite good because we are able to add all our hardware around it while the cortex is still accessible.
