---
title: "2381X Meeting Messages"
author: "Anthony Luo"
date: 2018-10-16 16:00:00 -0500
---
# Robot setup
The goal of the robot was to have extremely offensive power, which meant being able to quickly and effectively outrun and outscore the other robot. Having done game analysis, we determined that having a narrower robot would be more helpful towards getting around opponents, or through openings that we saw (for example, to get balls). Having a faster drive would also allow us to get into a better position to actually score on the flags or caps, and being geared for 240rpm with turbo gears should *theoretically* be faster than using 200rpm V5 motors. V5 motors have characteristics that inherently mean that they will body our robots, and through multiple tests that other teams have conducted, it is highly likely that an 8-motor High speed internal geared drive would be stalled by a V5 drive. 6 motor turbo would be faster, but would take longer to accelerate. With this in mind, we designed the robot to have an 8 motor turbo drive, which would allow us to quickly accelerate to top speed and pressure them. Having a faster drive also allows us to line up quickly (ie, get into position), and effectively score faster (less cycle time). 
We decided to put on a modular lift area, which would allow us to decide between using a descoring arm (for the caps), a simple 6-bar lift, or a full on reverse double four bar lift, depending on the nature of the competition and the opponents that we would be going against (this allows us to have a faster lift, or a slower linear lift, or only a descorer, or even no lift at all). The indexer is a system that can be either driven by the intake system using a tensioned two stage intake/indexer system, together with the entire intake (1:1 geared), or with a separate indexer motor. These allow multiple options, depending on the match play and the dynamic of the match.

# Drive Base
Our drive base is 8 motors, lined up on a c-channel. We discovered this season that we could build the inside c-channels of the drive, put them on, and then mount all the hardware, and then slide the outer c-channel on.
We found that it was possible to run the motors without a bearing motor-side, but the shaft would often flex and hit the c-channel. 
As a result of this, we decided that running a bearing motor-side would be the safer bet. It would introduce friction (reducing the effectiveness of our motors), but also allow us to keep the c-channels usable for longer. On the opposite page, you can see an image of our drive when completed.
IMG[000,001,002]
The completed drive has the motors very close together. The entire robot fits within 20 holes, and thus the drive is 6 holes from c-channel to c-channel. This means that there would be 8 holes between the c-channels, and because the c-channels on the interior are turned flat-part out. The motors are around 4.5 holes in width, which means that there is only 1 hole spacing between the motors, and the way that the chassis is constructed leaves a decent amount of space for motor controllers and wires (as long as we use wire-retaining clips).
