---
title: "2381X - Provs Bot"
author: "Anthony Luo"
date: 2018-12-30 13:00:00 -0500
---
So. This robot is going to be our provs bot. I metup with andy and we decided the following distribution for our robot. We want to go 30 wide, and have space internally for tracking wheels of all sorts, have either a 6m or 8m turbo drive, a flywheel, intake, and index system that will allow us to collect balls from off the cap. I have a decent idea of how I want everything to look, and again I want the ball intake to “step” the ball up in between the wheels, then get carried back and up. It is going to be incredibly important in this rebuild that our ball path is optimized - speed will be incredibly important. I believe it’s likely that we will spend a lot of time tuning the flywheel hood as well as the ball intake path. 
With 30 wide, we can fit most of the important things in the back - cortex, batteries, drive motors. We can elevate the drive motors above the wheels, and then gear or chain them up. We intend on using a drive similar to 5225A’s from last season, which gave a lot of space internally. We want to keep drive spacing roughly the same as we have now, which should be good for just about everything. We will however require a large amount of custom cut-shaft lengths if we intend to do what pilons did, I have a proposed solution which makes our drive slightly wider, which involves adding 0.5” extra space in the back. This should still allow us to have tracking wheels around 7.5” apart (assuming drive is going to be 6 holes nominal, and then adding 2 holes on each side for our gears, gives us a total width of 8 holes per side, leaving us 14 holes in between sides, which goes to around 7”. This doesn’t give us the widest distance, but then should still give us a decent amount of resolution for our tracking purposes. Mounting the wheels this way with an external channel also saves us some C-channel for bearings - maybe not a bad deal. Our flywheel hood will be cut out of lexan, this will probably be done once we return to school, in the meantime we’ll focus on getting drive up and running nicely, as well as intake and index running smoothly and efficiently (every bit matters now!).
