---
title: "2381X Meeting Messages"
author: "Anthony Luo"
date: 2018-11-08 12:00:00 -0500
---
This meeting, we added a descoring arm to our robot, and also managed to find some good places for our license plates, as well as add in our final sensors. This is the last build day we have before handing over to our programming and driver.
# Descoring arm:
Our descoring arm concept is simple, be able to drive beside a line of posts, and quickly descore all of them. We used a full length of 2 wide angle, because that was the only full length aluminum that we had left. Most other teams that we’ve seen so far have had descoring arms poiint backwards, but we decided to keep our descoring arm on the sidde because it would allow us to drive past the poles and descore them (without having to reposition each time). We added a flip-out standoff at the end of our arm because we realized that our full 7 section was really close to being able to take down the high caps. The standoff is held onto a screw joint, which is just a screw through a c-channel through a shaft collar and then into a nylock on the end. What this allows is a strong, consistent standoff location. The angle of the standoff was adjusted by switching the places of the second screw, which acts as a physical stop on the flip out standoff. The standoff itself is tensioned in using a rubber band, held down with zipties. Using zip-ties allows us to fine-tune the tension so the standoff stays out when we go to score, but doesn’t get “stuck” in the folded position (because the arm isn’t strong enough to overcome the force of the standoff pushing into the metal). This full length arm is now able to descore all the caps on the poles, which is very good. 
The descoring arm is held on a tower made of 3-wide (yes, we ran out of 2-wide c-channel). This was then screwed into a c-channel going along the length of our base, and was then braced from the side down to a pillow bearing. The reason that we decided to use this was because it would allow us to quickly change out the descoring arm for something else, a lift for exmaple, just that these aren’t finished yet. The actual arm itself is cantilevered on a screw joint, screwed down at the base (stationary screw), then through. The entire arm assembly and gear assembly. Cantilevering here is fine, because the descoring arm is fairly low load and is also screw jointed. It would be worse if we used an axle - much, much worse. Underneath, there is a c-channel supporting a shaft, and in between these two c-channels there goes out gear. This gear goess into our motor, with a reduction of 1:5. Because vex motors aren’t powerful, we use a gear reduction to give us enough torque to knock caps off of the poles. The shaft should not be cantileverd, but the c-channel doesn’t have to support much weight, for this reason, it can be held on with standoffs. Even though they’re quite flexy, they are still strong enough to do this task. At first, the arm would hit the c-channel on the way through, so we moved it down as much as we could to prevent it.
# Final sensor placements
In the end, we have a total of 6? Sensors on our robot. Here they are:
- Optical Shaft encoders (x3)
    - One on flywheel
    - One on Left side of drive
    - One on Right side of drive
- Limit switches (x2)
    - One to check if a ball is in the index location
    - One to check if the ball has fired
- Ultrasonic (x1)
    - Front of robot
- Potentiometer (x2)
    - Two at the front of the robot
- Gyroscope (x1)
    - One in center of robot
Lets go over each of these sensors, and what they’re doing on our robot, starting with the optical shaft encoders.
Optical shaft encoders measure the rotation of a shaft, using “ticks”. There are 360 ticks per rotation, and they keep counting up during a match. Using an optical shaft encoder on drive allows us to see if we’re driving straight, or make precise movements in auton. Optical shaft encoders are very reliable up to about 1300 rpm, and beyond that begin to fizz out because the light isn’t able to detect on the sensor fast enough. However, on a drivetrain, it has a very low speed application and there are no issues with it. On the flyhweel however, we’re using the optical shaft encoder to measure the velocity of the flywheel, and we should be able to use that measurement in code to better control the flywheel. 
So you can see that our drive encoders are mounted on nylon screws, and are outside of the drive. This is because they are pretty big and bulky, and we would do better with them external to our drive. We have long screws going through “nothing” because we didn’t have spacers that fit, and using the nylon screwed down tight works just fine for us. On the flywhee, we took a gear off of the actual flywheel gears. This is so that our encoder is in a comfortable rpm range, and this location hapened to work perfectly.
Limit switches are either on or off, and these allow us to detect when a ball is in the “loaded” position, when it has left the loaded position, and when it has been shot out of the flywheel. We would then be able to use software to control the movement of the ball between these two locations (fired/loaded). And adjust our intake logic accordingly.
Ultrasonics are used for measuring distance, this is mostly used in autonomous to make sure that we are the right distance away from the flags before we make a shot. 
Potentiometers are used for us to select autonomous positions and paths. We are using two, one to select physical position on the field (front red, front blue, rear red, rear blue) which then changes the program that we are running. We are able to load up to 5 programs for each position, for different autonomous paths. 
The gyroscope is one of the sensors that “drifts” in vex. It is affected a lot by passive interference and is not particularly happy near vibrations. We only use the gyro to double check against our encoder counts - it’s not a primary sensor. Our gyro is mounted on a c-channel near the bottom of the robot, which means that it isn’t going to be easily damaged, but it is very suusceptible to vibrations - we have to use it very carefully with good filtering. 
The last thing that we did was mount our license plates. We have a total of 6 license plates, 3 for each colour, two number plates and one vanity plate. The two number plates are held on the side of the robot, as per regulation. We used standoffs on the left side of the robot so that we would be able to quickly change the colours of the plates, and on the right side we screwed both the plates together, so it’ll take a few seconds to unscrew and remount the plates. We aren’t able to put on the quick-change license plates on this side because our descoring arm tower is in the way. Our last license plate, which is our name plate, went above the hood brace. This is a pretty central location, and we can show of our bot!
