---
title: 2381X Meeting Messages
author: Anthony Luo
date: 2018-12-23 13:00:00 -0500
---
# The Drive Base
All I did today was develop the drive base, we went through multiple iterations before I finally decided on a drive that would work well. Originally, I had wanted to put our omni wheels on the middle holes of the C-channel. We tested this with 12T sprockets and motors mounted, and we were unable to produce a clearance that would allow us to climb onto the platform. This was one big issue we wanted to address from the previous build, because our robot could NOT climb onto the center platform without having to use a cap (for ground clearance). We realize now that if we just backed into the platform at speed, we would be able to park, just not “safely” (we wouldn’t be touching the ground). The rebuild however, should be able to park, and I have one requirement for the base size - it NEEDS to be able to double park into our C team robot. This robot has been designed with the idea that we will be partnering with a robot similar to C if not C team itself. This means that we have to have clearance that can get us up the platforms and a bit more easily. So, this meant that I’d have to raise the base on pillow blocks. The reason we’re using 12T sprockets and chain? It makes it easier for us to link 8 motors together, and with our previous experiences on chain, it doesn’t really break. We’re hoping that the tensioning we put on this time allows our chain to seat nicely with the sprockets, and allow for efficient power transfer. Hopefully, we are able to do this. At the moment, I have 3 motors mounted, on the base rails themselves, one vertically at the rear (this makes it very easy to make one shaft go through the motor and the wheel, and then go out a bit more (if we wanted to run encoders, for example). The rest of our motors use normal 3” shafts, and go through bearings facing internally on the bottom hole of the C-channel. Why? Why would I run the motors on the *bottom* hole of c-channel, making clearance more difficult? Because that way I could have metal on metal contact with the cross brace. Does this have any advantages? Yes - it means that our entire robot is less twisty, there’s less flex, and is better able to handle being jostled around. It means that we can get by with only having one main cross brace, instead of having to use two. Will we end up using two? Very likely, but having this one right now gives me an incredibly large amount of flexibility with WHERE we mount the second one, otherwise, we’d likely have to mount the second one farther away. 
Update: half an hour later, I’ve figured out the chain run and where the other motors should go. 
IMG[000]
The last motors (4th motor per side, or 7th and 8th motor), are going to be mounted above the interior pontoons and rails. This is not a bad place to put it, as it allows me a large open area in the back, perfect for something like a cortex! Before that however, allow me to explaining the theory of tensioning and “contact arc”.
# Contact arc
Contact arc is very important, especially on 12T sprockets. The smaller the sprocket, the more you have to be wary of the contact arc. A small contact arc (closer to 0 degrees), means the chain bends less around the sprocket, and has less contact with the sprocket. This has the advantage that the sprocket will not be likely to break the chain, because the force is more evenly distributed across the sprocket, but the force transferred to the sprocket may not be as good, because there is physically less meshing between the chain and the teeth on the sprocket. With a larger sprocket, this becomes less of an issue for chain snapping (assuming proper tensioning), but does become an issue for power transfer. Bad contact arc can mean that power isn’t transferred all the way through, or is transferred in a non-efficient manner. 
# Tensioning.
The more a chain is loose, the more likely it is to skip isntead of snapping. There is a very fine balance between a chain that is too tight anda cahin that is too loose. If the chain is too loose, motors and sprockets will skip, but if the chain is too tight there will be extra friction and the chain is MUCH more likely to snap. Ideally, there is a little bit of slop in the chain (slop being the amount of play the chain has), but there can’t be too much slop, otherwise skipping and play occurs. 
On a 20-wide robot, it is especially important to understand that our turning speed is much faster than say, on a 30 wide. This measn that our entire drivetrain is working harder to turn the robot the same amount , more strain on motors, cahin, sprockets, everything. Why? Imagine a long stick, mounted on a point. It’s harder to psuh it around from closer to the rotation, which is exactly what our robot is doing. The wheels are scrubbing against the ground at the same speed, so we are rotating faster. This also means that our center of gravity has to be good, if it is not, the rear wheels will be suspect to an INCREDIBLY large amount of “wheel scrub”, which is incredibly inefficient. 
IMG[001]
The cortex is shown mounted, on left. We chose this mounting point for multiple reasons. The first, and probably most important, is easy accessibility. Mounting the cortex here should mean that it is very easily accessible, that way if we need to swap wires, the cortex is easily accessible. This also means that swapping a cortex (which yes, we have done multiple times now), is easy and not terrible. The other thing is, it leaves us enough space in the back for mounting another cross brace (useful for defense - we have a bar that we can use to push people with), as well as our encoder wheels. The plates that the cortex is mounted on also offers some amount of “shock” absorption, which should help protect the cortex somewhat - heavy shocks to the cortex aren’t good and can easily damage the internals, which is why mounting it on a leaf-spring system should be a little bit better. 
After the drive has been mounted, I asked: where do our encoder wheels go? Actually, before that, what are encoder wheels? Encoder wheels are free-spinning wheels attached to encoders which will allow us to do “odometry”, which essentially gives us exact position and orientation of the ship on field. In order to account for all variance, error, and potential wheel slip, 3 wheels are needed. These 3 wheels are going to be attached DIRECTLY to encoders through a shaft (to eliminate slop through gears and chain), and there are 3 wheels that need to be placed, 2 parallel, and one perpendicular to the other two. We decided to place the two parallel encoders going forward/backward (this was the easiest to find locations for, and has been our generally assumption so far in terms of pseudo code). The farther apart these wheels are, the better, but with our robot being 20 holes wide nominal, it is very difficult to find space for these encoders, however it was eventually done.
IMG[002,003]
Here, the front encoder wheel positions are shown. 3.25” wheels were used as mocks because we could not obtain 2.75” wheels (they are currently experiencing shipping delays). For this reason, we are using 3.25” wheels to mock the locations of our encoders. Yes, 2.75” wheels will fit a little bit better (that smaller diameter is all we need to have it sit in a nice location), and will offer us more resolution. The farther apart they are, the more resolution we get in terms of turning - that’s why we want them apart. However, due to our circumstances, 6 holes (3”) is the best that we can do from edge to edge. If this doesn’t give enough accuracy, we will likely move the encoder wheels to be external - this brings along it’s own host of problems which we will address later. 2.75” wheels should also NOT extend past the c-channel, although even on 3.25” wheels there is no issue with this.
Our rear wheel placement is a little bit easier, because we again have the space at the back that has been “carved” out already. Here, a wheel should fit perfectly.
IMG[004]
Here, in the back, we can see the location for our last encoder wheel. It fits VERY nicely in the little nook that we have made, and we are still able to brace over it. It is centered with respect to the rear wheels, however we may decide to mount it on a banded mini 4-bar so that it is able to move when climbing (if we deem it necessary). This will have to be established through testing, and we have two options for the shaft on this wheel - we can either choose to run the shaft close to the wheel, with the encoder basically touching the wheel, or we can choose to run the shaft all the way through the underbody of the robot, which measn that we can place the encoder internally (whichever ends up being easier, I guess).
