---
title: "2381X Meeting Messages"
author: "Anthony Luo"
date: 2018-11-01 -0500
---
# Wiring Drive Motors
The first thing we did this meeting was work on the wiring for the drive motors. This is incredibly important because last season motor controllers and motors would break during or in between matches, it would be difficult for us to swap in time. There are a few things that we did to help make swapping motors or motor controllers easier. The 4 motors are each run off their own motor controllers, and there are two y-cables on the cortex leading to two motor controllers. Later, these will feed through a power expander, but VEX Shipments have been delayed, so we won’t get our LCD Display and Power Expander until much much later. Same goes for our cable connectors. To get around this, we made two “motor controller” plates for each side, and zip-tied the motor controllers onto the plate (there are two holes on the back of the motor controllers, which seem to fit into the hole spacing on the vex hardware perfectly). Using these, we then zip-tied them across the top of a plate, shown on the right.
IMG[000]
You can also see on the back of the plate that we have our y-cable connecting to two motor controllers. These are zip-tied in between the triangular cut-outs on the plate, as that was teh only way we could fit 5 of them on. The plate itself is attached to the two c-channels on the edge of the robot, allowing us to quickly take off a plate, and swap it back on in case a motor controller fails. This saves us time in the event  multiple failures occur, and doesn’t take much longer than having to cut just one. 
On the other side, the same thing. A plate with 4 motor controllers runs to the motors. The motors themselves are run on a plate which is 8 holes wide and 5 holes tall. On the outside, our motors are wired up, from closest to farthest. This means that if a motor breaks, we can easily trace the wire and replace it. In fact, the motors are zip-tied together instead of using screws, that way to replace a motor or internal motor gear, we only have to replace 4 zipties (2 on each side), and 3 cables on the wiring.
IMG[001]
There was  only one side done at the time of this picture, but because the zip-ties are 3 holes apart, it leaves us 1 hole down the center to wire both sides of the motor controller plates. Perfect. 
IMG[002,003,004]
# Double Anchor Support
On our drive base, we have outer c-channels. However, due to the nature of our robot, it can be very difficult to brace the c-channel on both sides, this means that along the bottom edge of the c-channel there is a lot of flex. To resolve this issue, we use what we call a double anchor support, or DAS for short. 
IMG[005,006]
Now, how a das works, instead of screwing down just to one edge of a c-channel as shown in image 005, you take a longer screw and add 2 nuts to it, as shown in image 006. As you can see, one side is completed and one side is not (left side/right side). What this allows the force along the c-channel to do is to travel up along the screw, and then that side of the c-channel is essentially braced. The same effect can be achieved by using white nylon spacers, however using keps nuts allows you to get tighter to the metal, and thus prevent more sway from occurring. It is important not to overtighten any outer nut at one time, as this can easily deform the c-chanel. Using Keps on the interior is ok, as long as they are tightened down with enough torque. There is no issue with keps, as long as they are tight. Renegade robotics did experiments confirming these. Two locations of this double anchor support allow our outer c-channel to be braced as  well as if it were being braced on both sides by a c-channel (assumnig the one c-channel can take the load).
# Flywheel hood tuning
We tuned our flywheel hood using lexan, and cut multiple holes on it. We realized that we were sending the balls flying too much “up” and not enough “forward” to toggle the flags nicely, so we drilled more holes at the top of the lexan to allow us to move our c-channel forwards, and then “close” the hood a bit. Because our c-channel is mounted on standoffs that aren’t directly on the center of rotation, they wouldn’t be perfect 90 degree angles to the lexan, which is ok as long as we’re able to mitigate that compression bump. The compression was slowly adjusted using the nylon spacers and washers to give us a good combination of forward and up. The final result is that we’re able to hit the flags lined up along the edges of the tile, super easy for our driver.
# Intake Chain Run
The intake chain run was finished up, we managed to get everything chained together. We used a tensioner to keep the contact arc long enough on each sprocket to skip instead of snapping the chain, but also to drive it effectively enough to intake a ball. The tensioner was done by using a screw screwed down all the way using a keps nut, and then by sandwiching white nylon spacers in between teflon, and then capping the end off with a nylock. The nylock allows the spacers to spin freely without coming off.
# Battery Placement
Although our power expander is still not here yet, we have to start thinking about where to place our batteries. Fortunately for us, there is a great big gap in between our rear c-chanel and drive motors, which fits two batteries side by side perfectly. Unfortunately, there is nothing to hold these batteries in, so we cut some c-channel and added some standoffs. This isn’t as quick as clips, but does add weight low on the robot, which is good for us.
IMG[007,008]
