---
title: 2381X Meeting Messages
author: Anthony Luo
date: 2019-01-02 13:00:00 -0500
---
The first thing that I did today was rebuild the gearing on each side so that we would have High strength (HS) gears. Previously, I had tried bolting the gears together. There weren’t enough clearances with the wheel. In order to solve this, we switched to an Low strength (LS) 60T gear, for a variety of reasons, mostly that it would clear better. This time however, I eliminated bolts from the equation. Now, normally HS gears have inserts, one is green free-spinning and one is a metal (steel?) square insert, to adapt form HS shafts to LS shafts. The issue that I am afraid of, is that when you transfer all of the power from 4 drive motors into one gear, going across one shaft, it may bend, flex, and we lose the amazing properties of a geared drive, which is instantaneous response. The solution we implemented was mating the two gears directly with a HS insert - while then passing a LS shaft through. The entire setup. This means that we are able to use the same shaft (which is much better) than splitting a shaft), and we are able to transfer power through the HS shaft insert, and LS shaft as well - this means that we should have almost 0 delay between force coming from the motors and force going into the gear on the wheel, which is then transferred through to the wheels through LS shafts, bolts, and sprockets - however, all of these are using metal on LS shafts - better than Plastic which the LS gears use. How do I make this gearbox? Start with the gears shown in IMG_1522(jan2,2019), and then put the insert into one gear IMG_1525(jan2,2019). Because the other insert goes halfway, the insert here is also only going to go halfway. However, because this one is designed to go through an entire gear, it sticks out a bit. Once it’s in, you can place the second gear on, and it will fit nicely, as in IMG-1526.
Once this gear setup had been finished, the gears assembly was mounted and spaced off on the drive. IMG_1521. Here you can see the gear assembly - 0.25” spacers were added to the standoffs so that we would have clearance on the top 36T gear - this gear is spaced using delrin spacers because the regular nylon spacers are too wide in outer diameter to fit. You can also see that there is a slight difference between the top 60T gear and the bottom 60T gear, this is because the top 60T gear has an extra teflon washer in order to clear the screwheads on the motor screws. Fortunately, this does clear the sprocket and chain system. 
I added to the drive later the battery mounts and a cross-brace. The first thing that I did was move the battery mounts as far in as I could, this means that I could potentially get a protective plate around it on the outside, and balance the weight on the plates even more. In IMG_1534 you can see that the battery mount sits flush with the exterior 5-wide plate. This was achieved by using the thin (non keps) nuts, which are 0.125” thick, and then 0.5” screws with a bearing block, and 0.25” screws without. This means that 0.25-0.06=0.19” of the screw head is left out on the other side, which is just enough to clear through the battery mount and then the nut without exposing the screw and risking damage to the battery. The battery mount was also chosen so that there would be clearance with the various other nuts (around 0.15”). From there, clip mounts were determined so that the battery could remain as flush as possible with the plate. IMG_1536 shows the height of the battery mount on the right side of the drive. It is mounted here so that we are able to prevent other robots from hitting the batteries and damaging it - we anticipate most robot contact to be around the height of our drive-channel, and mounting the battery that far up is mostly for sizing and precaution. You can also see that taking spacers away from the battery mount means that our battery can fit behind a standoff (not all the way out), which means there is space for us to put up a protective cover. The next thing that I would like to talk about are our battery extension mounts - these are mounted in a way to keep the battery cables safe - we don’t want to risk our cables being caught on something. In order to prevent this, the cables should be tensioned towards the back just a little bit, but loose enough so we aren’t breaking connectors. The battery connector needed to be raised by half an inch because it needed to clear the rear c-channel (the wire coming out from the back). We then realized that we would be able to mount plates outside of the battery, and they would fit better. This helps to protect our batteries, not to mention they fit so nice. IMG_1540, IMG_1542, IMG_1544.
In the last image, you can see that there is a large cross-brace going across the back. The point of this is to help protect the drive motors (in the occasion we find ourselves pushing somebody else), and also braces the top of the 5-wides. With C-channels that tall, and with that many motors on them, they statr to flex and bend in weird directions. With the cross beam, we’re able to prevent this flex. You’ll notice that we used 0.25 spacers on the outer plate, and thus it won’t line up with the holes on the cross brace. We solved this by cleverly using zipties to hold the two pieces of metal together - this won’t brace per se, but will pull the two flat pieces closer together, making angled motion more difficult, and therefore bracing it and reducing flex as you can see in IMG_1535.
The last thing that I did today was work on the intake, or start on it. Before this however, I played around with cortex mounting positions - having a flat area in the back is going to be very fun!
Ok - intake time. The intake should be made out of as light and low-clearance material as we can. Currently we are using 3-section (15 hole) 1xL pieces, however we may switch those out for full 2-wide C-channels. This is because the 2-wide should clear the way we have them setup, and will be a little bit stronger. IMG_1533 . Here you can see the 1xL coming inside the robot. 1XL is lighter, but we might need to cancel out the weight from the motors in the back, and this might mean using heavier materials up front - this can be changed later. You’ll also notice in IMG_1533(jan2,2019), how the main c-channel for the intake is mounted. We used a C-channel mounted around the bearings nuts, centered with the wheel (so it would clear), and then attached a fat 2-wide to the bottom. This is centered with bias towards the rear, which gives it a very good angle for an intake up front. The reason we used box bolts on the bottom c-channel is because we wanted to use the c-channel going across the bottom to also help brace the drive - this solves the issue of our bracing on the drive (yes, we did also add standoffs inside the c-channel, you can see them in IMG_1547. However, beacuse our drive channels are 7 holes apart, our c-channel has extra holes - not an issue, everything still clears. The sprockets are held apart using standoffs, which are 6”. 4 6” standoffs, we used a 1x3 section cut out of a 3 wide c-channel (c-channel metal is thicker than plate or bar metal), which helps to prevent the bars from misaligning and twisting too much - which can happen from elastics being tensioned improperly. We have a 6T gear on the end, which should allow our intake to spin very fast. On both sides, c-channels support the sprockets so that they are able to clear the wheels (just barely), and they are faced inwards so we can get the widest possible intake (so that we’re able to get the washers/spacers on the inside of the c-channel, not taking space away on the edge of the c-channel. This also means that we need some spacers on the sprockets themselves to make it as wide as possible. In IMG_1545, you can see that the intake spans almost the entire way across. Later, the second stage was added, this will move the ball up to a platform that is raised above the clearance of the drive, so that we are able to park (and not be limited by our intake).
As it stands right now, we have just enough clearance to park. IMG_1546 shows our robot in a parking position, in this position it will have the least clearance possible from the front wheel, and as you can see the lower edge of the c-channel is probably the lowest that a brace could be mounted on before we are unable to park. IMG_1565 shows the current state of the second intake - we have mounted c-channels on the inside of the drive channels, and then we have c-channels on standoffs above that. The issue with the current setup is that there is too much compression on the ball, thus upping the torque needed to move the ball up. We hope to solve this issue simply by adding in a spacer or longer standoff, to make it so that there is less contact with the ball. 
