---
title: "2381X Meeting Messages"
author: "Anthony Luo"
date: 2019-01-01 13:00:00 -0500
---
Anthony here - Today, the drive for the robot was built. After last time, there were a few issues that we ran into, that we fixed. One side of the drive was then completed, with all 4 drive motors mounted, bearings in place, shaft collars in place, and battery mounted. There are still modifications and improvements to be made - however, this should be pretty good for now. 
First requirement: 1:1 turbo drive on 4” wheels. This gives us a free speed of around 3000”/min, or around 4 feet per second. This free speed allows us to cross the field very quickly, however the true speed of our robot is going to be much closer to v5’s true speed of around 200rpm. We anticipate that other robots with v5 are likely going to be running 200rpm 1:1 ratios on their drive, which is why it is important for us to be able to outrun them. 8 motors on drive is likely going to be our safest ratio. At some comps, we may try to run a 6 motor drive by taking off one of the motors, and if that works nicely, we may be able to run 6 motor drive and leave two extra motors for additional functions - the tradeoff with 6 motors is that we lose acceleration, something that we might want to keep as v5 motors keep roughly the same torque from 0-50% speed (electronically limited). This means that they will accelerate very very quickly (as discobots as demonstrated soon). 8 motors gives us less strain on each motor, which means that we can get closer to truespeed (or freespeed), and we are able to get there faster. This math has been done with CIM motors before, between 6 CIM and 4CIM drives. Fortunately, we don’t need to worry about brownouts. We are using gears all in the back so that we can get direct feedback from wheels into motors - reducing backlash and shock load. 
IMG[000,001]
I started with what was there last time, except this time I finished both sides of the drive. From there, I started stacking the gears above in order to check sizing. The first thing that I started with was a 60T bolted to a 30T, both of the HS variant. The idea is that we can use large 60T gears to transfer power in a 1:1 ratio, and then 36T gears will allow us to fit a lot of motors into a very small space. The original mock was just done with 2-wide, and whatever standoffs would fit in the space. Image 000 is the very first mock that we did, here there are no bearings, and this was just a straight size fit. I experimented with different placements of the 36T gears, as you can see from the C-channel stacked on top. This has not yet been screwed in, and is merely here for a size reference. I took motors and held them up to the channel using quick 0.25” 6-32 screws screwed in by hand - this means they will stay (no breaking motors), and will also allow me to mock multiple motors. Image 001 shows the gear s attached, with a shaft going through and one motor mounted. Here, you can see that the standoffs need spacers on the end for the gears to clear, however this was later changed because I had not added teflon to the gears when I mocked it up. Once I added the thickness of teflon, the nuts on the 36T gear dug into the omni wheels rollers, creating additional friction.
IMG[002,003]
Here you get a good sense of where motors need to go, there are two shafts visible, and one motor already mounted. This prompet me to change from 2-wide to 5-wide (stacking 2-wide is heavier than five wide). Five wide also meant that spacing for that vertical gear is easier. I was originally only planning on having motors on the outside of the robot, however as you can see in image 003, there is a very low chance of a motor fitting on the outside of the drive without a large amount of overhang. This, mounting all the motors inside would be the only option.
IMG[004]
After the switch to 5-wide, the gearing was done again. I realized that leaving the motors vertically would help somewhat with cooling, and would also mean that I could mount the motors closer together (they would need more space mounted in the other direction). The added benefit of this is that with the introduction of the last gear, there is half the additional friction being introduced, because the gear is only touching one other gear - and not two other (as you would in a 2x2 matrix). Image 004 shows the firstr mockup for sizing. The large HS 60T gear was swapped out for a smaller LS 60T gear, but the 36T gear was left as a HS gear. This is because the large 60T gear is less likely to break, however. As soon as I can however, I will swap the 60T gear out for a HS one, and add a few teflon washers - there is no need for the two to be bolted together - just the metal inserts will be better.
IMG[005]
Image 005 shows us how the motors look once they are setup properly. You’ll notice that all of them have zipties - this is so that we are able to quickly swap out the motors or internal gears should one fail. This mounting is also beneficial as the two forward motors get better airflow - this may not be very important in matches, but every little advantage will be helpful. The other two motors at the back should get airflow just from moving around, and they cannot be mounted vertically even if we wanted them to be. The last thing is that we are able to mount standoffs better with this setup - we have more mounting holes.
IMG[006]
Image 006 shows the top of our gearbox - here you can see the bearings mounted - the external five wide is braced in three points, which well be braced even more later on. These 10 holes were exactly as we planned it to be, which is very good. 
IMG[007]
Image 007 shows us the back of the gearbox. Here again, you can see the spacing that holds everything together. The battery is currently mounted on half inch spacers, but if that is shortened to 0.25” spacers, we should be able to move the external plate out just by a little bit and swap the LS 60T gear to a HS60T gear - if we want to do this and risk  friction against chain, I am not sure yet. Again, the point of the battery mounting is so that we are better able to access them, swapping them out before competitions. This also gives us a very visual indicator of whether or not our batteries are even plugged in (we have forgotten this before).
IMG[008,009]
Images 008 and 009 show the bracing underneath the 5-wide. Here, the internal C-channel on our drivebase is shorter than the external C-channel on our drive base (I’ll explain in a second). The focus here is on the standoffs. We attempted to create a balanced use of all spacer sizes (so that we wouldn’t overuse one and run out). There is a standoff near the back of the 5-wide (we could not get to the very back because of the motor mounting) There is a standoff near the middle, and there is a standoff near the very front. These two standoffs create three points of contact, which means that the 5-wide mounted above the standoffs can be centered more naturally (more definitions upon the path of a line). Here, we used spacers beacuse box-bolting with nuts would have taken a long time, and would be incredibly difficult to implement. Spacers in this instance, beside the box bolting, also helps the box bolting be the appropriate size (if you mess up boi bolting, you can easily bend the c-channel outwards or inwards - spacers prevent that. 
IMG[010,011,012]
Lastly image 010 shows the drive base. As previously mentioned, the interior C-channel and exterior C-channel do not line up. Image 011 also shows this pretty nicely. The reason that the interior C-channel is moved upwards is so that we were able to get more room up front, to be able to attach an intake channel at the front holes of the drive channel, for example in image 012. 
Currently, our drive is very flexible, and we will definitely need another brace - one brace will not be able to hold the torque across the drivebase.  Where this one will go, we can solve later. I will also need to put standoffs across the pontoons, so that the flex between the actual pontoon is reduced. 
