---
title: "2381X Meeting Messages"
author: "Anthony Luo"
date: 2019-01-03 13:00:00 -0500
---
Anthony back here again - today I spent a lot of time working on the robot, but not much was accomplished - a lot of it involved test fitting parts and pieces. In the end, we had our flywheel intake path figured out - which is a very crucial part of the robot. This took around 5 hours, and was a very VERY painful ordeal. 
The general idea of a well tuned intake is that it’ll bring the ball up quickly, and into a “primed” position quickly. From the primed position, it needs to be able to feed into the flywheel quickly and easily. Our intake needed to raise the ball above the drive, and then bring it up a bit, otherwise the sprockets would not fit - that was our original plan. Unfortunately, this means that we are sacrificing a little bit of vertical height, but we are also gaining a better feed angle - we don’t need to go around 90 degrees, and that means the ball has less of a path to go through. The VERY FIRST thing that we did with the drive was find the minimum clearance that we would need to get it working. Once we had the clearance set, we mounted a 1xL across the bottom of the drive, as you can see in IMG_1575. This half cut gives me a visual indicator of where my clearance is set, and everything has to be built on or above that in order to clear. Now, I tried using bars, plates, and a variety of other materials shaped in different curves to intake the ball up. In the end, standoffs worked the best, they would center the ball and are very rigid. Friction matting will have to be added to the standoffs to help increase traction (rubber bands work too!) but that will probablyy be added when the hood and plate are swapped properly. The top of the intake has some bars attached to it, so the ball has a better angle to work with. 
The next thing was mounting the flywheel towers - in order to do this we needed to move the intake 5-wide forward by just a little bit, one hole. IMG_1581 shows the different aligned c-channels. The left side has moved, the right side hasn’t. The flywheel towers are mounted on spacers, with two c-channels on each side holding up the tower. This means that the tower is braced incredibly well - especially considering how low it is braced. On this tower, the flywheel can be mounted. The other side was then mounted, you can see the standoffs in IMG_1589. The last stage intake was then mounted on 1xL, using a normal bearing (this will be changed to a pillow bearing on a floating tower.
The last thing we did was experiment with tracking wheels.e Something similar to IMG_1596. Our first attempt resulted in a very not fun sizing arrangement as you can see in IMG_1588, however we realized that we can canti axles and it should be ok - this gives us a lot more room to work with.
